National Preparedness Goal | FEMA.gov
Skip to main content Navigation × Close Navigation Enter Search Term(s): Hurricane Maria Public Assistance: Local, State, Tribal and Non-Profit Training About the Agency Hazard Mitigation Assistance National Mitigation Framework News Desk Contacts Preliminary Damage Assessment Reports Region III Region VI Individual Disaster Assistance Protecting Your Businesses Region IX Assistance To Firefighters Grant Program Publications & Resources Mobile App Testimony & Speeches Official Accounts Presidential Policy Directive 8 (Learn about PPD-8) Social Media Volunteer & Donate Responsibly Text Messages Federal Interagency Operational Plans Whole Community Technological Hazards Division - Contacts Accessible ASL Videos National Preparedness Goal National Preparedness Report National Preparedness System Blog Careers FEMA Earthquake Contacts Region VII DHS Center for Faith & Opportunity Initiatives Grant Case Studies Children and Disasters Climate Change Community Resilience Indicators and National-Level Measures: A Draft Interagency Concept Contact Us Continuity National Preparedness Resource Library Data Visualization Disaster Assistance Reports COVID-19 Disaster Declarations COVID-19 Fact Sheets & Guidance COVID-19 Guidance COVID-19 News Releases COVID-19 Response in Action Media Gallery Disability FEMA Qualification System Disaster Declarations Disaster Emergency Communications Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) Coronavirus (COVID-19) Response Coronavirus Best Practices Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQ Coronavirus Rumor Control How To Help Reference Library Disaster Recovery Centers Document and Resource Library eGrants Application Process Email Updates Emergency Management Agencies Emergency Management Institute Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation Program Exercise Fact Sheets Captain R. Webster Finance Center Lifelines National Dam Safety Review Board Members Pub 1 Region I: CT, ME, MA, NH, RI, VT Training Programs Hurricane Dorian Cybersecurity Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 National Business Emergency Operations Center National Level Exercise Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Emergency Management Training Opportunities Emergency Planning Exercises Rulemaking and Regulations Shaken Fury 2019 Tech Sector Collaboration Success Stories What Items Are Covered By Disaster Assistance? Flood Hazard Mapping Flood Insurance Flood Map Service Center Grant Programs Directorate Grants Management Modernization Program Hazard Mitigation Planning High Water Mark Initiative Home How to Make a Payment to FEMA Hurricane Florence Hurricane Michael Hurricane Harvey Transitional Shelter Assistance Hurricane Irma Podcast Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program Incident Management Assistance Teams Accessible ASL Videos Mission Areas Independent Study Program Individual and Community Preparedness Division Individual Assistance Program Tools Fire Management Assistance Grants Integrated Public Alert & Warning System Multimedia Library (Photos, Video, and Audio) National Exercise Program National Disaster Recovery Framework National Incident Management System News Releases OpenFEMA Protecting Homes Protecting Our Communities Public Assistance Appeals Database Recovery Resources Region II Region IV Region V Region VIII Region X Required Notices Reservist Program Safer, Stronger, Protected Homes & Communities States Tribal Unified Federal Environmental and Historic Preservation Review Urban Search and Rescue U.S. Coast Guard Retiree to FEMA Reservist Initiative Voluntary, Faith-Based, & Community-Based Organizations Search × Close Search Enter Search Term(s): Languages × Close Languages English Español Français Ελληνικά العربية 简体中文 Deutsch Haitian Creole עברית हिन्दी Italiano 日本語 한국어 Polski Português Русский Tagalog ภาษาไทย اردو Tiếng Việt Yiddish National Preparedness Goal Core Capabilities Core Capability Development Sheets Main Content National Preparedness Goal The purpose of this page is to provide an overview of the National Preparedness Goal. The intended audience for this page is the whole community–individuals, families, communities, the private and nonprofit sectors, faith-based organizations, and state, local, tribal, territorial, insular area and Federal governments. Introduction The National Preparedness Goal defines what it means for the whole community to be prepared for all types of disasters and emergencies. The goal itself is succinct: “A secure and resilient nation with the capabilities required across the whole community to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from the threats and hazards that pose the greatest risk.” These risks include events such as natural disasters, disease pandemics, chemical spills and other manmade hazards, terrorist attacks and cyber attacks. To learn more about the commitment to whole community involvement, visit the whole community page on this site. ﻿Capabilities to Reach the Goal In addition to stating the goal, the National Preparedness Goal describes 32 activities, called core capabilities, that address the greatest risks to the nation. Each of these core capabilities is tied to a capability target. These targets recognize that everyone needs the flexibility to determine how they apply their resources, based on the threats that are most relevant to them and their communities. A Midwestern city, for example, may determine it is at high risk for a catastrophic tornado. As a result, the city could set a target to have a certain number of shelters in place. The same applies across all potential risks, understanding that each risk is different; therefore, each target is different. To see a full list of the core capabilities, including details about each one, visit the Core Capabilities page on this site. The National Preparedness Goal organizes the core capabilities into the five mission areas: Prevention. Prevent, avoid or stop an imminent, threatened or actual act of terrorism. Protection. Protect our citizens, residents, visitors and assets against the greatest threats and hazards in a manner that allows our interests, aspirations and way of life to thrive. Mitigation. Reduce the loss of life and property by lessening the impact of future disasters. Response. Respond quickly to save lives, protect property and the environment, and meet basic human needs in the aftermath of a catastrophic incident. Recovery. Recover through a focus on the timely restoration, strengthening and revitalization of infrastructure, housing and a sustainable economy, as well as the health, social, cultural, historic and environmental fabric of communities affected by a catastrophic incident. ﻿Download Materials National Preparedness Goal (Full Document) National Preparedness Goal Information Sheet National Preparedness Goal What's New 2015 Last Updated: 05/02/2018 - 15:16 Skip footer content. Share This Page. Home About Us Download Plug-ins Doing Business with FEMA Privacy Policy Accessibility FOIA No Fear Act Data Office of the Inspector General Strategic Plan Whitehouse.gov DHS.gov Ready.gov USA.gov DisasterAssistance.gov Official website of the Department of Homeland Security End of web page.