If You Have Animals | CDC
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Self-Checker Coronavirus Self-Checker × Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Search Search Icon Close Icon × Coronavirus Coronavirus All CDC Submit For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Coronavirus Disease 2019 Section Navigation CDC Home Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Syndicate If You Have Animals Other Languages | | Minus Related Pages Key Points Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some cause illness in people, and others cause illness in certain types of animals. Some coronaviruses that infect animals can sometimes be spread to people, but this is rare. We do not know the exact source of the current outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The first infections were thought to be linked to a live animal market, but the virus is now primarily spreading from person to person. At this time, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the virus that causes COVID-19. Based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low. We are still learning about this virus, but it appears that it can spread from people to animals in some situations. The first case of an animal testing positive for the virus in the United States was in a tiger that had a respiratory illness at a zoo in New York City. CDC is aware of a small number of pets, including cats and dogs, reportedexternal icon to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, mostly after close contact with people with COVID-19. Treat pets as you would other human family members – do not let pets interact with people or animals outside the household. If a person inside the household becomes sick, isolate that person from everyone else, including pets. Further studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by the virus that causes COVID-19 and the role animals may play in the spread of COVID-19. This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available. For more information, see COVID-19 and Animals Frequently Asked Questions. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some coronaviruses cause cold-like illnesses in people, while others cause illness in certain types of animals, such as cattle, camels, and bats. Some coronaviruses, such as canine and feline coronaviruses, infect only animals and do not infect humans. Risk of animals spreading the virus that causes COVID-19 to people Some coronaviruses that infect animals can sometimes be spread to humans and then spread between people, but this is rare. Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) are examples of diseases caused by coronaviruses that originated in animals and spread to people. This is what is suspected to have happened with the virus that caused the current outbreak of COVID-19. However, we do not know the exact source of this virus. Public health officials and partners are working hard to identify the source of COVID-19. The first infections were linked to a live animal market, but the virus is now spreading from person to person. The coronavirus most similar to the virus causing COVID-19 is the one that causes SARS. The virus that causes COVID-19 spreads mainly from person to person through respiratory droplets from coughing, sneezing, and talking. Recent studies show that people who are infected but do not have symptoms likely also play a role in the spread of COVID-19. At this time, there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the virus that causes COVID-19. Based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low. Risk of people spreading the virus that causes COVID-19 to animals CDC is aware of a small number of pets, including dogs and cats, reportedexternal icon to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, mostly after close contact with people with COVID-19. Only a few of the animals reported to be positive showed signs of illness. The first caseexternal icon in the United States of an animal testing positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 was a tiger with a respiratory illness at a zoo in New York City. Samples from this tiger were collected and tested after several lions and tigers at the zoo showed signs of respiratory illness. Public health officials believe these large cats became sick after being exposed to a zoo employee who was infected with the virus that causes COVID-19. This investigation is ongoing. We are still learning about this virus, but we know that it originally came from an animal source and is primarily spreading from person-to-person, but it appears that it can spread from people to animals in some situations. CDC is working with human and animal health partners to monitor this situation and will continue to provide updates as information becomes available. Further studies are needed to understand if and how different animals could be affected by COVID-19. What to do if you own pets Until we learn more about how this virus affects animals, treat pets as you would other human family members to protect them from a possible infection. Do not let pets interact with people or other animals outside the household. Keep cats indoors when possible to prevent them from interacting with other animals or people. Walk dogs on a leash, maintaining at least 6 feet (2 meters) from other people and animals. Avoid dog parks or public places where a large number of people and dogs gather. There is a small number of animals around the world reported to be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, mostly after having contact with a person with COVID-19. Talk to your veterinarian if your pet gets sick or if you have any concerns about your pet’s health. Protect pets if you are sick If you are sick with COVID-19 (either suspected or confirmed by a test), you should restrict contact with your pets and other animals, just like you would with people. Until we know more about this virus, people sick with COVID-19 should avoid contact with pets and other animals. When possible, have another member of your household care for your pets while you are sick. Avoid contact with your pet including, petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food or bedding. If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wear a cloth face covering and wash your hands before and after you interact with them. If you are sick with COVID-19 and your pet becomes sick, do not take your pet to the veterinary clinic yourself. Call your veterinarian and let them know you have been sick with COVID-19. Some veterinarians may offer telemedicine consultations or other plans for seeing sick pets. Your veterinarian can evaluate your pet and determine the next steps for your pet’s treatment and care. For more information visit: What to Do if You are Sick. Stay healthy around animals In the United States, there is no evidence that animals are playing a significant role in the spread of COVID-19. Based on the limited information available to date, the risk of animals spreading COVID-19 to people is considered to be low.. However, because all animals can carry germs that can make people sick, it’s always a good idea to practice healthy habits around pets and other animals. Wash your hands after handling animals, their food, waste, or supplies. Practice good pet hygiene and clean up after pets properly. Talk to your veterinarian if you have questions about your pet’s health. Be aware that children 5 years of age and younger, people with weakened immune systems, and people 65 years of age and older are more likely to get sick from germs some animals can carry. For more information, visit CDC’s Healthy Pets, Healthy People website. Guidance and Recommendations Interim Guidance for Public Health Professionals Managing People with COVID-19 in Home Care and Isolation Who Have Pets or Other Animals Interim recommendations for intake of companion animals from households where humans with COVID-19 are present external icon Interim Infection Prevention and Control Guidance for Veterinary Clinics Related Resources COVID-19 and Animals FAQs Information on Bringing an Animal into the United States World Organisation for Animal Health: Q&As on COVID-19external icon USDA: Coronavirus Disease 2019external icon FDA: Coronavirus Disease 2019external icon USDA Statement on the Confirmation of COVID-19 Infection in a Tiger in New Yorkexternal icon Page last reviewed: April 21, 2020 Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases homeCoronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Symptoms & Testingplus icon Symptoms Should You Get Tested Prevent Getting Sickplus icon How It Spreads Protect Yourself Cloth Face Coversplus icon Recommendations for Cloth Face Covers Cloth Face Covers FAQs Cleaning Your Homeplus icon Detailed Disinfection Guidance Social Distancing Daily Life & Copingplus icon Household Checklistplus icon Detailed Planning Guidance Living in Close Quarters Running Errands Stress & Copingplus icon Reducing Stigma Stop the Spread of Rumors Caring for Childrenplus icon Talking to Children Visiting Parks and Recreational Facilities If You Have Animals If You Are Sickplus icon What to Do If You Are Sick Caring for Someone People Who Need Extra Precautionsplus icon People Who Are At Higher Riskplus icon Older Adults People with Asthma People with HIV At Risk for Severe Illness Others At Riskplus icon People with Disabilities Homelessness Pregnancy & Breastfeeding Racial and Ethnic Minority Groups What You Can Do Frequently Asked Questions Travelplus icon Travel in the US Travel Health Notices Returning from International Travel Cruise Ship Travelplus icon What CDC is Doing for Cruise Traveler Travel FAQs Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the US Communication Resources for Travelplus icon Road Travel Toolkit for Transportation Partners Cases, Data, & Surveillanceplus icon COVIDView Weekly Summaryplus icon Purpose and Methods Past Weekly Reports Cases in the USplus icon Previous U.S. COVID-19 Case Data Testing in the US Forecasting in the US World Map Data Visualization Assessing Risk Factors FAQ Data and Surveillance Communities, Schools & Workplacesplus icon Critical Workers Disinfecting Your Facilityplus icon Detailed Guidance for Disinfecting Facilities Disinfect Your Non-Emergency Vehicle Schools & Child Careplus icon Guidance for Schools & Child Care FAQs for Administrators Checklist for Teachers and Parents Open Child Care Programs Colleges & Universitiesplus icon Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Institutions of Higher Education Guidance for Student Foreign Travel for Institutions of Higher Education FAQs for Administrators Businessesplus icon Conserving and Extending Filtering Facepiece Respirator Supply Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers Small Businesses FAQs for Businesses Airline Catering Kitchen Workers Airport Catering Truck Drivers Airline Customer Service and Gate Agents Airport Baggage and Cargo Handlers Airport Custodial Staff Airport Passenger Assistance Workers Aircraft Maintenance Airport Retail or Food Service Workers Bus Transit Operators Grocery and Food Retail Workers Meat and Poultry Packing Industry Rail Transit Operators Transit Maintenance Workers Transit Station Workers Mail & Parcel Delivery Drivers Rideshare, Taxi, Limo, or Other Drivers-For-Hire Food & Grocery Pick-up & Delivery Drivers Shared or Congregate Housing Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Shared or Congregate Housing Gatherings & Community Eventsplus icon Interim Guidance for Event Planners Election Polling Locations FAQs for Event First Responders and Law Enforcementplus icon Information for Law Enforcement Personnel Information for Firefighters & EMS Providers FAQs for Law Enforcement Community- and Faith-Based Organizationsplus icon Interim Guidance for Community and Faith Leaders Checklist to Get Your Organization Ready FAQs for Faith-Based Organizations Parks & Recreational Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Park Administrators Homeless Populationplus icon Interim Guidance on People Experiencing Unsheltered Homelessness Interim Guidance for Homeless Service Providers Screening for Symptoms FAQs for Homeless Shelters Retirement Communitiesplus icon Guidance for Retirement Communities Checklist to Stay Healthy FAQs for Administrators Correctional and Detention Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Correctional & Detention Facilities FAQs for Administrators, Staff, Incarcerated People & Family Members Tribal Communitiesplus icon Funeral and Burial Services Social Distancing & Coping Veterinarians & Veterinary Staff Healthcare Professionalsplus icon Evaluation & Testing Clinical Careplus icon Clinical Care Guidance Therapeutic Options Underlying Conditions Ending Home Isolationplus icon Ending Home Isolation for Immunocompromised Patients Criteria for Return to Work for Healthcare Personnel with Confirmed or Suspected COVID-19 (Interim Guidance) Caring for Patients at Home Discharging Hospitalized Patients Caring for Children Caring for Pregnant Women Telephone Response Guide Infection Controlplus icon Infection Control Guidance FAQ on Infection Control Using PPE Hand Hygiene FAQ on Hand Hygiene Alternate Care Sites Ambulatory Care Settings Assisted Living Facilities Blood & Plasma Facilities Dental Settings Dialysis Facilitiesplus icon Patient Screening at Dialysis Facilities Dialysis in Acute Care Patients on Home Dialysis Nursing Homes & Long-Term Care Facilitiesplus icon Key Strategies for Long-term Care Facilities Pharmacies Postmortem Guidance Optimize PPE Supplyplus icon PPE Burn Rate Calculator Eye Protection Gowns Facemasks N95 Respiratorsplus icon N95 Respirator Summary Stockpiled N95 Respirators Decontamination & Reuse of Filtering Facepiece Respirators Powered Air Purifying Respirators Elastomeric Respirators Ventilators FAQ About PPE Potential Exposure at Workplus icon Public Health Activity Guidance Return-to-Work Criteria First Responder Guidance Preparedness Toolsplus icon Healthcare Provider Checklist Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take Healthcare Facility Guidance COVID-19Surge Tool Hospital Preparedness Tool Nursing Home & Long-Term Care Facility Checklist Get Your Clinic Ready Mitigating Staff Shortages Print Resources Guidance for U.S. Facilities Operational Considerations for Non-US Settingsplus icon Infection Control in Non-US Facilities Triaging Sick Patients Identifying Sick Workers and Inpatients Managing Visitors Managing Exposed Healthcare Workers Training for Healthcare Professionals FAQs Health Departmentsplus icon Support for Health Departmentsplus icon Infection Control Surveillance & Data Analytics Laboratory Capacity Contact Tracing Principles of Contact Tracing Community Mitigation Staffing Resources Financial Resources Communication Materials Response Corps Public Health Communicators Investigating Cases in Homeless Shelters Evaluating PUIs Residential Reporting a Confirmed Case Travel-Associated Exposures Community-Related Exposures Pandemic Preparedness Resources Households with Petsplus icon Animal Testing Criteria COVID-19 Publications Environmental Health Practitioners Cooling Centers Guidance for Building Water Systems Water and COVID-19 FAQs Laboratoriesplus icon FAQs for Laboratories CDC Lab Workplus icon Diagnostic Testing Serology Testing CDC Grows SARS-CoV-2 Guidelines for Clinical Specimens Lab Biosafety Guidelines Laboratory Biosafety and COVID-19: Questions and Answers Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information CDC's Responseplus icon By the Numbers CDC in Action Situation Summary Communication Resourcesplus icon Guidance Documents Social Media Toolkit Buttons and Badges Print Resources Public Service Announcements (PSAs) Videosplus icon Downloadable Videos What's New email_03Get Email Updates To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address: Email Address What's this? Submit Spanish Communication Resources Social Media Toolkit Learn More HAVE QUESTIONS? Visit CDC-INFO Call 800-232-4636 Email CDC-INFO Open 24/7 CDC INFORMATION About CDC Jobs Funding Policies File Viewers & Players Privacy FOIA No Fear Act OIG Nondiscrimination Accessibility CONNECT WITH CDC Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Syndicate CDC TV RSS Email U.S. Department of Health & Human Services USA.gov CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE Español 繁體中文 Tiếng Việt 한국어 Tagalog Русский العربية Kreyòl Ayisyen Français Polski Português Italiano Deutsch 日本語 فارسی English Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email SAS stats Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy Close Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website. Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website. You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link. CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website. For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers. Cancel Continue