Office of Inspector General | Government Oversight | U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know The .gov means it's official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you're on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. HHS Office of Inspector General Menu About OIG Reports Fraud Compliance Exclusions Newsroom Careers COVID-19 Portal Search Search Search Submit a Complaint OIG proposes rule for civil money penalties for information blocking Read the Rule Fraud Alert: COVID-19 Scams Learn How to Protect Yourself OIG's Work in Infectious Disease Preparedness & Response Read Our Work What's New April 24, 2020 UPDATED: FAQs–Application of OIG's Administrative Enforcement Authorities to Arrangements Directly Connected to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Public Health Emergency April 22, 2020 Grand Desert Psychiatric Services: Audit of Medicare Payments for Psychotherapy Services A-09-19-03018 Recommendation Followup: Michigan Did Not Report and Refund the Full Federal Share of Medicaid Overpayments A-05-18-00022 April 21, 2020 Grants, Contracts, and Other Agreements: Fraud and Abuse; Information Blocking; Office of Inspector General's Civil Money Penalty Rules Press Release: OIG proposes rule for civil money penalties for information blocking Joint Statement: Statements from the Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services on Interoperability Flexibilities amid the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency Read More What's New Enforcement Actions April 23, 2020; U.S. Attorney's Office, Eastern District of Virginia Ambulance Provider Agrees to Settle False Claims Act Allegations April 23, 2020; U.S. Attorney's Office, Southern District of Georgia Telemedicine company owner charged in $60 million fraud scheme; Defendant is 23rd charged in largest fraud operation ever prosecuted by Southern District of Georgia April 22, 2020; U.S. Attorney's Office, Western District of Virginia Centra Health Inc. and Blue Ridge Ear, Nose, Throat, and Plastic Surgery, Inc. Agree to Pay Nearly $10 Million to Settle False Claims Act Allegations April 21, 2020; U.S. Attorney's Office, Southern District of Ohio Tech company pays $1.7 million in restitution for defrauding hospital electronic records programs April 21, 2020; U.S. Attorney's Office, Eastern District of Pennsylvania Psychiatrist Affiliated with Philadelphia and Lehigh Valley-Area Health Clinics Who Claimed to Have Seen Over 120 Patients per Day Agrees to Pay $91,109 to Resolve False Claims Act Liability Read More Enforcement Actions Most Shared This Week An Estimated 87 Percent of Inpatient Psychiatric Facility Claims With Outlier Payments Did Not Meet Medicare's... 96 Percent of South Carolina's Medicaid Fee-for-Service Telemedicine Payments Were Insufficiently... COVID-19 Fraud Alert Medicare Home Health Agency Provider Compliance Audit: Residential Home Health Medicare Hospital Payments for Claims Involving the Acute- and Post-Acute-Care Transfer Policies Search Exclusions Search the LEIE database for all exclusions currently in effect, or download the latest files, updated every month. Learn About Careers with OIG A dedicated, well-trained, highly motivated workforce is a key factor in OIG's success. Join us and embark on a career that will make a difference in the lives of Americans. Review Featured Topics Compilations of OIG's government oversight work on specific subject matter areas, such as opioids, group homes, and hospital compliance. These topics are updated as new material is published. Whistleblower Protection Whistleblower disclosures by employees of HHS and its contractors and grantees can save lives as well as billions of taxpayer dollars. Federal laws strongly encourage disclosures of wrongdoing. About HHS OIG HHS OIG is the largest inspector general's office in the Federal Government, with approximately 1,600 dedicated to combating fraud, waste and abuse and to improving the efficiency of HHS programs. A majority of OIG's resources goes toward the government oversight of Medicare and Medicaid—programs that represent a significant part of the Federal budget and that affect this country's most vulnerable citizens. OIG's oversight extends to programs under other HHS institutions, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institutes of Health, and the Food and Drug Administration. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Return to top Related Information Accessibility FAQs Privacy Notice Disclaimers Plain Writing Guidance Practices NPDB HHS.gov IGnet USA.gov FOIA Download Reader Publications Strategic Plan Budget Top Management & Performance Challenges Work Plan Semiannual Reports to Congress Unimplemented Recommendations Subscribe to Our Newsletter HHS Office of Inspector General Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn RSS 330 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201