COVID-19 Forecasts | CDC
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Self-Checker Coronavirus Self-Checker × Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Search Search Icon Close Icon × Coronavirus Coronavirus All CDC Submit For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Coronavirus Disease 2019 Section Navigation CDC Home Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Syndicate COVID-19 Forecasts Minus Related Pages On This Page Why Forecasting COVID-19 Deaths in the US is Critical What the Forecasts Aim to Predict National Forecast State Forecasts Working to Bring Together Forecasts for COVID-19 Deaths in the US Last updated April 24, 2020 Why Forecasting COVID-19 Deaths in the US is Critical CDC is responding to a pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by a novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2, that is spreading from person to person. The federal government is working closely with state, tribal, local, and territorial health departments, and other public health partners, to respond to this situation. Forecasts of deaths will help inform public health decision-making by projecting the likely impact in coming weeks. What the Forecasts Aim to Predict Forecasts based on the use of statistical or mathematical models (subsequently referred to as “models”) aim to predict changes in national- and state-level cumulative reported COVID-19 deaths for the next four weeks. Forecasting teams predict numbers of deaths using different types of data (e.g., COVID-19 data, demographic data, mobility data), methods (see below), and estimates for the impacts of interventions (e.g. social distancing, use of face coverings). National Forecast These forecasts show cumulative reported COVID-19 deaths since February and forecasted deaths for the next four weeks in the United States. The CU models make various assumptions about the effectiveness of current interventions. All other models assume that existing social distancing measures will continue through the time-period shown. Interpretation of Forecasts National-level forecasts indicate that deaths are likely to continue to rise in the coming weeks. How quickly they will increase remains very uncertain. Models that incorporate strong contact reduction (e.g. IHME, MOBS) suggest that new deaths will continue to occur, but slow substantially over the next four weeks. Conversely, models that do not incorporate as strong contact reductions (e.g. CU 20%, CU 30%) suggest that total deaths may continue to rise quickly. State-level forecasts vary widely, reflecting differences in early epidemic phases, timing of interventions, and model-specific assumptions (e.g. about the effectiveness of implemented interventions). State Forecasts State level forecasts show observed and forecasted state level cumulative COVID-19 deaths in the US. Forecasts fall into one of three categories The LANL model does not explicitly model the effects of individual social distancing measures but assumes that implemented interventions will continue to be upheld in the future resulting in decreased growth. The IHME, UT Austin, University of Geneva, YYG, and MOBS_NEU models are conditional on existing social distancing measures continuing through the projected period. The CU models make different assumptions about the effectiveness of current social distancing interventions. Download state forecastspdf icon Download model dataexcel icon Working to Bring Together Forecasts for COVID-19 Deaths in the US CDC works with partners to bring together weekly forecasts for COVID-19 deaths in one place. These forecasts have been developed independently and shared publicly. It is important to bring these forecasts together to help understand how they compare with each other and how much uncertainty there is about what may happen in the upcoming four weeks. Columbia Universityexternal icon Model names: CU 20% contact reduction, CU 30% contact reduction, CU 40% contact reduction Intervention assumptions These models are based on assumptions of reducing the number of contacts per case. Three different adaptive scenarios of contact reduction are projected: 20%, 30%, and 40% contact reduction in US counties with at least 10 cases. Additional reductions are implemented with additional new cases, and all social distancing interventions remain in place until the end of the projection. Methods Metapopulation SEIR model Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluationexternal icon Model name: IHME Intervention assumptions This model assumes social distancing stays in place until the pandemic, in its current phase, reaches the point when COVID-19 deaths are less than 0.3 per million people. Based on these latest projections, IHME expects social distancing measures to be in place through the end of May. Methods Non-linear mixed effects curve-fitting Los Alamos National Laboratory (state-level forecasts only)external icon Model name: LANL Intervention assumptions Currently implemented interventions and the corresponding reductions in transmission will continue to be upheld in the future, resulting in an overall decrease in the growth rate of COVID-19. Over the course of the forecast, the model assumes that the growth will decrease over time. Methods Statistical dynamical growth model accounting for population susceptibility Northeasternexternal icon Model name: MOBS (Laboratory for the Modeling of Biological + Socio-technical Systems) Intervention assumptions The projections assume that social distancing policies in place at the date of calibration are extended for the future weeks. Methods Metapopulation, age-structured SLIR model University of Texas, Austinexternal icon Model name: UT Austin Intervention assumptions Estimates the extent of social distancing using geolocation data from mobile phones and assumes that the extent of social distancing does not change during the period of forecasting. The model is designed to predict confirmed COVID-19 deaths resulting from only a single wave of transmission. Methods Statistical mixed-effects model. University of Geneva (one-week ahead forecasts only)external icon Model name: University of Geneva Intervention assumptions The projections assume that social distancing policies in place at the date of calibration are extended for the future weeks. Methods Exponential and linear statistical models fit to the recent growth rate of cumulative deaths. Youyang Gu (COVID-Projections)external icon Model name: YYG Intervention assumptions The projections assume that strong social distancing policies will remain in place through the projected period. Methods SEIS mechanistic model. Archive of COVID19 Forecasts An archive of previous COVID-19 forecasts may be accessed here Additional Resources: Previous COVID-19 Forecasts COVID Cases, Data, and Surveillanceexternal icon FAQ: COVID-19 Data and Surveillance Page last reviewed: April 19, 2020 Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases homeCoronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Symptoms & Testingplus icon Symptoms Should You Get Tested Prevent Getting Sickplus icon How It Spreads Protect Yourself Cloth Face Coversplus icon Recommendations for Cloth Face Covers Cloth Face Covers FAQs Cleaning Your Homeplus icon Detailed Disinfection Guidance Social Distancing Daily Life & Copingplus icon Household Checklistplus icon Detailed Planning Guidance Living in Close Quarters Running Errands Stress & Copingplus icon Reducing Stigma Stop the Spread of Rumors Caring for Childrenplus icon Talking to Children Visiting Parks and Recreational Facilities If You Have Animals If You Are Sickplus icon What to Do If You Are Sick Caring for Someone People Who Need Extra Precautionsplus icon People Who Are At Higher Riskplus icon Older Adults People with Asthma People with HIV At Risk for Severe Illness Others At Riskplus icon People with Disabilities Homelessness Pregnancy & Breastfeeding Racial and Ethnic Minority Groups What You Can Do Frequently Asked Questions Travelplus icon Travel in the US Travel Health Notices Returning from International Travel Cruise Ship Travelplus icon What CDC is Doing for Cruise Traveler Travel FAQs Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the US Communication Resources for Travelplus icon Road Travel Toolkit for Transportation Partners Cases, Data, & Surveillanceplus icon COVIDView Weekly Summaryplus icon Purpose and Methods Past Weekly Reports Cases in the USplus icon Previous U.S. COVID-19 Case Data Testing in the US Forecasting in the US World Map Data Visualization Assessing Risk Factors FAQ Data and Surveillance Communities, Schools & Workplacesplus icon Critical Workers Disinfecting Your Facilityplus icon Detailed Guidance for Disinfecting Facilities Disinfect Your Non-Emergency Vehicle Schools & Child Careplus icon Guidance for Schools & Child Care FAQs for Administrators Checklist for Teachers and Parents Open Child Care Programs Colleges & Universitiesplus icon Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Institutions of Higher Education Guidance for Student Foreign Travel for Institutions of Higher Education FAQs for Administrators Businessesplus icon Conserving and Extending Filtering Facepiece Respirator Supply Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers Small Businesses FAQs for Businesses Airline Catering Kitchen Workers Airport Catering Truck Drivers Airline Customer Service and Gate Agents Airport Baggage and Cargo Handlers Airport Custodial Staff Airport Passenger Assistance Workers Aircraft Maintenance Airport Retail or Food Service Workers Bus Transit Operators Grocery and Food Retail Workers Meat and Poultry Packing Industry Rail Transit Operators Transit Maintenance Workers Transit Station Workers Mail & Parcel Delivery Drivers Rideshare, Taxi, Limo, or Other Drivers-For-Hire Food & Grocery Pick-up & Delivery Drivers Shared or Congregate Housing Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Shared or Congregate Housing Gatherings & Community Eventsplus icon Interim Guidance for Event Planners Election Polling Locations FAQs for Event First Responders and Law Enforcementplus icon Information for Law Enforcement Personnel Information for Firefighters & EMS Providers FAQs for Law Enforcement Community- and Faith-Based Organizationsplus icon Interim Guidance for Community and Faith Leaders Checklist to Get Your Organization Ready FAQs for Faith-Based Organizations Parks & Recreational Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Park Administrators Homeless Populationplus icon Interim Guidance on People Experiencing Unsheltered Homelessness Interim Guidance for Homeless Service Providers Screening for Symptoms FAQs for Homeless Shelters Retirement Communitiesplus icon Guidance for Retirement Communities Checklist to Stay Healthy FAQs for Administrators Correctional and Detention Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Correctional & Detention Facilities FAQs for Administrators, Staff, Incarcerated People & Family Members Tribal Communitiesplus icon Funeral and Burial Services Social Distancing & Coping Veterinarians & Veterinary Staff Healthcare Professionalsplus icon Evaluation & Testing Clinical Careplus icon Clinical Care Guidance Therapeutic Options Underlying Conditions Ending Home Isolationplus icon Ending Home Isolation for Immunocompromised Patients Criteria for Return to Work for Healthcare Personnel with Confirmed or Suspected COVID-19 (Interim Guidance) Caring for Patients at Home Discharging Hospitalized Patients Caring for Children Caring for Pregnant Women Telephone Response Guide Infection Controlplus icon Infection Control Guidance FAQ on Infection Control Using PPE Hand Hygiene FAQ on Hand Hygiene Alternate Care Sites Ambulatory Care Settings Assisted Living Facilities Blood & Plasma Facilities Dental Settings Dialysis Facilitiesplus icon Patient Screening at Dialysis Facilities Dialysis in Acute Care Patients on Home Dialysis Nursing Homes & Long-Term Care Facilitiesplus icon Key Strategies for Long-term Care Facilities Pharmacies Postmortem Guidance Optimize PPE Supplyplus icon PPE Burn Rate Calculator Eye Protection Gowns Facemasks N95 Respiratorsplus icon N95 Respirator Summary Stockpiled N95 Respirators Decontamination & Reuse of Filtering Facepiece Respirators Powered Air Purifying Respirators Elastomeric Respirators Ventilators FAQ About PPE Potential Exposure at Workplus icon Public Health Activity Guidance Return-to-Work Criteria First Responder Guidance Preparedness Toolsplus icon Healthcare Provider Checklist Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take Healthcare Facility Guidance COVID-19Surge Tool Hospital Preparedness Tool Nursing Home & Long-Term Care Facility Checklist Get Your Clinic Ready Mitigating Staff Shortages Print Resources Guidance for U.S. Facilities Operational Considerations for Non-US Settingsplus icon Infection Control in Non-US Facilities Triaging Sick Patients Identifying Sick Workers and Inpatients Managing Visitors Managing Exposed Healthcare Workers Training for Healthcare Professionals FAQs Health Departmentsplus icon Support for Health Departmentsplus icon Infection Control Surveillance & Data Analytics Laboratory Capacity Contact Tracing Principles of Contact Tracing Community Mitigation Staffing Resources Financial Resources Communication Materials Response Corps Public Health Communicators Investigating Cases in Homeless Shelters Evaluating PUIs Residential Reporting a Confirmed Case Travel-Associated Exposures Community-Related Exposures Pandemic Preparedness Resources Households with Petsplus icon Animal Testing Criteria COVID-19 Publications Environmental Health Practitioners Cooling Centers Guidance for Building Water Systems Water and COVID-19 FAQs Laboratoriesplus icon FAQs for Laboratories CDC Lab Workplus icon Diagnostic Testing Serology Testing CDC Grows SARS-CoV-2 Guidelines for Clinical Specimens Lab Biosafety Guidelines Laboratory Biosafety and COVID-19: Questions and Answers Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information CDC's Responseplus icon By the Numbers CDC in Action Situation Summary Communication Resourcesplus icon Guidance Documents Social Media Toolkit Buttons and Badges Print Resources Public Service Announcements (PSAs) Videosplus icon Downloadable Videos What's New email_03Get Email Updates To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address: Email Address What's this? Submit Spanish Communication Resources Social Media Toolkit Learn More HAVE QUESTIONS? Visit CDC-INFO Call 800-232-4636 Email CDC-INFO Open 24/7 CDC INFORMATION About CDC Jobs Funding Policies File Viewers & Players Privacy FOIA No Fear Act OIG Nondiscrimination Accessibility CONNECT WITH CDC Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Syndicate CDC TV RSS Email U.S. Department of Health & Human Services USA.gov CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE Español 繁體中文 Tiếng Việt 한국어 Tagalog Русский العربية Kreyòl Ayisyen Français Polski Português Italiano Deutsch 日本語 فارسی English Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email SAS stats Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy Close Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website. Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website. You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link. CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website. For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers. Cancel Continue